---
layout: junior_coders_default
title: Simple two-line maze
---
* [Simple two-line maze](#simple-two-line-maze)
    * [Review Homework: Four Corners](#review-homework-four-corners)
    * [Simple two-line maze](#simple-two-line-maze-1)
    * [Recording sounds and making characters disappear](#recording-sounds-and-making-characters-disappear)
    * [New Screen and Copy characters](#new-screen-and-copy-characters)
    * [Homework](#homework)

# Simple two-line maze

### Review Homework: Four Corners

I reviewed the homework individually, and then as a group we worked through all the steps of the homework. As a group we worked out the homework useing the movement blocks to make the character visit all 4 corners. We also learned how to turn on the grid to count how many steps the character should move in each direction.


### Simple two-line maze

Then we created a maze together as a class. This included review from the previous class of how to create a new project, how to add characters to a project, how to create a background picture, how to draw lines.

We also learned how to remove points from a line to make the line straight, how to paint the background of the screen, how to use the start trigger block, how to use the movement blocks to make the character move and the rotation blocks to make the character face the direction they were moving. Children worked individually on making their own simple maze, and adjusted the parameters of their program to adjust their individual maze.

Children also learned how to change the size of a character, how to change the start position of the character, how to use the reset button to return the character to the original position.


### Recording sounds and making characters disappear

Once they were able to make one character follow the maze, they then placed the other character at the end of the maze for the "hero" to "defeat" or "rescue". Children learned how to use the "contact" trigger block to initiate an action on contact, and how to record a sound and use the sound on contact. They also learned how to make a character disappear at that point.


### New Screen and Copy characters

We learned how to add a new screen to a project, and how to copy characters from one screen to the next. We used this to begin the homework.


### Homework

The homework consists of:

* Think about ways to make the maze more interesting. Some ideas we had included:

  * Add items for the character to get along the ways
  * Make the maze more difficult by adding lines to the background.

  
* Make a new maze, including at least:
  * a new screen in the existing project
  * a new background with more difficult maze
  * actions and sounds when the final character is found
  * additional items according to the kid's imagination
