---
layout: junior_coders_default
title: Getting Started with Scratch Jr. (Monday PM)
title2: 
levelsToTop: "../"
tags: []
date: 2021-02-09 00:00:00
summary: Summary of the article
---

Week {{ page.date | date: "%W" }} _{{ page.date | date: "%A"   }}, {% assign d = page.date | date: "%-d" %}{{ page.date | date: "%B" }} {% case d %}{% when "1" or "21" or "31" %}{{ d }}st{% when "2" or "22" %}{{ d }}nd{% when "3" or "23" %}{{ d }}rd{% else %}{{ d }}th{% endcase %}, {{ page.date | date: "%Y" }}&nbsp;_{:  .marginnote}


# Friday

## scratchjr
### Tynker

# Saturday
## scratchjr

# Monday
## Tynker 
Lots of fun exploring.

Today is a review day.

Say one nice thing about yourself. Something that makes you feel good. 
Say one nice thing about someone else. Something that will make them feel good.

You all have unique gifts fr programming
* Hugh: Creative and exciting, energetic, pulls in ideas from many places.
* Miki: Clever ideas for games, and works hard on it. Learns independently.
* Anela: Thoughtful, kind. Why is that important. Family project.
* Siwoo: Willing to ask questions and find answers
* Akira: Concentrates well. Working thogh difficulties. Focus. It'S hard to say what your question is.
* 
YOu all have some of these qualities to some extent. 


Projects get stuck: 
* Hugh: Among us slow
* MMiki: Great ideas, but unexplored possibilities
* Anela: Is learning to do things, but there is more 
* Siwoo: New, but learning from others
* Akira: Understands a lot but aa gap bwteen what he wants and what he can . 


Learn by reviewing as well as exploring, and listening and imitating

I have fixed a lot of projects for you (hugh, anela, siwoo, miki, akira). Why? To show you by example what can be done.  To help show you the way ahead as coders. To encourage you to make the projects your own.

### Steps:
1. First I will go through one project (inspired) by each of you. I will highlight some good poimnt and some code you should all be able to understand.


2.  I have made a project that shows off some simple examples of how to do things. I will walk through it. YOur job is try to understand it well enough to finish this project. We will do one screen as a group, and one screen is left for each of you to finish. I will give awards each day. I will take away awards for negative actions, give awards for positive actions.
3. If you listen and have enough awards at the end of the day you get a prize. If you do something good and earn bonus awards you get a bonus prize.
If you finish yourr project and have enough awards at end of the project, you get a bonus bonus award.

THe awards are not too serious. It is just to add a little fun. Don't stress!

At the end you will hae control and mastery.

DDo 

Start with siwoo