---
layout: junior_coders_default
---


details>
<summary>## September 28th
</summary>

## September 28th



### Review Sept. 28th Homework

The homework was:

* Do one more tutorial
* Continue working on whatever projects you have started

### Start work on Group Project to Review All Blocks 

We focus on movement blocks, and all the blocks we have used so far. 


### Motion Exercises

https://scratch.mit.edu/studios/27602759/

The first exercise is make the project below from the block sets below. 

* Make the cat visit all the circles in the order given in the class video.
* Don't break the sets, but use all the sets.
* You have all you need. Don't add anything!!!!!!!!
* Think! How many steps?? What is first? What is next? What is last?



{% include giphy.html link="https://media.giphy.com/media/JtZI0aUxEcJDLq6dlh/" %} 


```

when gf clicked

go to x: (0) y: (0)
point in direction (90)
say [Hello!] for (2) seconds

move (175) steps
say [Round the World We Go!] for (2) seconds

move (220) steps
turn ccw (90) degrees
say [Here I go] for (2) seconds

turn ccw (90) degrees
say [Here I go] for (2) seconds

move (175) steps
turn ccw (90) degrees
say [Here I go] for (2) seconds

move (110) steps
turn ccw (90) degrees
say [Here I go] for (2) seconds

move (110) steps
point in direction (90)
say [Thanks!] for (2) seconds

move (350) steps
turn ccw (90) degrees
say [Here I go] for (2) seconds
```
{: .msb}


### Start work on Group Project to Review All Blocks 

We focus on movement blocks, and all the blocks we have used so far. 

The game is I give a block or set of block, and each student has to put it somewhere or think of how to use it in their project.

## Behavior


As I mentioned recently, the kids became a bit energetic last week for a while, which makes me think that it might be a good time to review some basic behavior guidelines (do's and don'ts). Some are relevant to recent events, others are more general. I will go over these in class on Monday, but you should know what I might say, and consider reviewing key points with your child as you see fit. Feel free to let me know of any reactions or thoughts you may have.


---

During class there is often a time when we are working on our own project. At these times, try to limit conversation. Talking when you don't need to can make it hard for others (and you) to concentrate.

If kids have a question but I am busy, for example taking care of another student, here are a few good options for you while you are waiting:

* try to figure out the answer yourself
* work on another project
* create another project to show off what you can do!
* ask another student (quietly) for help
* look at other projects
* be patient
* think about what you would like to do after you get the answer
* Think about what project you would like to create next

** It is OK to remind me from time to time that you are waiting, but doing it too often is rude to others.

Some things that are not OK in that situation:

* Don't use the internet or your computer for things unrelated to classwork. No Youtube, and so on.
* Don't disturb other kids, even if they might enjoy it.
** Loud and physical play is fun, but it is also possibly dangerous and can bother and distract other students. There are times and places where it is OK, but this class is not an appropriate place for it.

Some people do not like to be touched in certain ways, so always be careful when touching another person or their stuff. In addition, right now touching others is not safe due to the coronavirus. Ask first!

Don't share food!!

Stay in your seat as much as possible or move carefully and quietly if you need to (i.e. to go to the restroom, for example).


This is a learning environment. Sometimes we talk about other things. Casual conversation is OK.

However, conversations that don't add to a fun positive learning environment are not OK. This means things like loud distracting conversations, hurtful words, and so on. A little silliness is fun, too much is distracting.

If I draw your attention to any of these things, try to correct your behavior.

Keep your speech positive and relevant.
Keep your hands to yourself.
Keep your focus on learning and creating.

</details>
 