---
layout: junior_coders_default
title: Getting Started with Scratch Jr. (Monday PM)
title2: 
levelsToTop: "../"
tags: []
---

Friday

<details markdown=1>
<summary markdown=1>## September 3rd
</summary>

## September 3rd

### Recap for September 3rd

Today students worked on individual projects. Projects included

Basket Game
  : The student added more balls ot his game. The project uses conditionals, screen wrapping, movement blocks

First Person Shooter
  : We made the gun for the shooter, and talked about drawing and object placement, direction angles and limiting movement, following the mouse. 

{% include imgur.html title="" ID="https://i.imgur.com/7PD2m9f.png" caption="This keeps the gun pointing within a given sector" width="" height="" spacer="" %}

Harry Potter Game 
  : This student started making an introduction to Harry Potter Project, based on a model I gave him.

Beginning ScratchJr.
  : A new student joined this week, and I gave him an introduction to ScratchJr that included using the green flag and touch blockss, and various other blocks. Based on the fishtank sample project he make his own project

</details>

Sat 

<details markdown=1>
<summary markdown=1>## September 4th
</summary>

## September 4th

### Recap for September 4th


Projects we worked on this week: 

First Person Shooter
  : We made the gun for the shooter, and talked about make the gun pointing in the direction of the mouse. We also made a bad guy.

{% include imgur.html title="" ID="https://i.imgur.com/U8NjtrC.png" caption="" width="" height="" spacer="" %}

 

Going down the road
  : We made a car and a road for this project, and learned how to make the road move past us.

{% include zakviewer.html Name="Untitled\-125" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/566674798/" caption="press space and e to see it in action" %}



A crazy project 
  : The joy of forever loops.
{% include zakviewer.html Name="" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/550356223/" caption="" %}

Mario Projects
  : Students are intrigued by these but they are a bit beyond their skill. We have covered some of the basic steps in class, and kids will often modify these.

{% include zakviewer.html Name="Untitled\-21" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/557767891/" caption="This project is not fully the student's own creation, but features some additions by the student." %}


Solar Panel Project
  : A student is developing a project to model a solar panel. It includes the influence of weather (reducing output, breakage), maintenance costs, and a power meter. We talked about general goals of the project, such as how user input would change the game. This projecct is a candidate for entry in a coding competition.

</details>

<details markdown=1>
<summary markdown=1>## September 6th
</summary>

## September 6th



### Recap for September 6th

Today we (nearly) finished making the basic Mario game based on Grey. We added more levels and made the flag switch the levels.


{% include zakviewer.html Name="Student A" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/564896769/" caption="Great project!" %}


{% include zakviewer.html Name="Student M" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/564897209/" caption="" %}

{% include zakviewer.html Name="Student H" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/564897884/" caption="" %}

{% include zakviewer.html Name="Student S" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/564896942/" caption="" %}

One student learned how to change his profile and downsize and image. We talked about the fact that the move block needs to know which direction to move, and that moving in a negative direction moves backwards.

Student K joined us for the first time today. They made a somewhat different version of the game, focusing more on blocks they were familiar with. For example, they struggled with making the cat move up and down, and hardcoded the movement with set y blocks rather than using change y by blocks. They worked on making the cat face in different dirrections.


Instead of levels, they made individual platforms. This is just a different way of doing this project, and a good way to reinforce what you know while building to new skills. Towards the end we added some new blocks, such as if and sensing blocks to test for contact.


{% include zakviewer.html Name="beeps adventure" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/567151154/" caption="" %}

We also had a ScratchJr. Student who continued working on their Issun-bōshi (Tom Thumb) Story, and remaking sample projects. 



</details>


Monday notes:
Anela: perfect game. 
MI: not quite finished. needs to add 

```
when I receive [next level]
next costume
```
{: .msb}


to paddle. and remove code touching flag code from paddle.

HU: needs to make flag separate from Sprite 1. Needs when touching flag code for next level.

SAK: Project works, but he said he needs more explanation of how it works.



NEXT WEEK:

review projects and fix MI and HU and K




* To do  


* Exercises for Mario 
* Things to do while taking care of slow students 
* Collect actvities into Airtable
* unscreen.com 
* https://www.online-image-editor.com/ 
* Makde samplee projects from Mario project such as 
  * Dots and Crosses 
  * Mario 
  * Blocks 


* Projects to try to simplify
  * Cat wars
  * Fight to survive 


* Tutorials to watch


Scne one parents go to template
Parent bring home boy, boy grows up, and leaves the home 
In village, boy works with family, loves the girl. the girl is stolen by an online-image-editor 
The boy stabs the oni, he gives up the girl, and they are married.
