---
layout: junior_coders_default
title: Getting Started with Scratch Jr. (Monday PM)
title2: 
levelsToTop: "../"
tags: []
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary markdown=1>## May 31st
</summary>

## May 31st

### Junior Coders Beginner's Challenge

Today I introduced the **Junior Coders Beginner's Challenge** [please see this page for details](./BeginnerChallenge.html). The goal is to motivate students  to do the Scratch and Tynker tutorials. Students all began or continued working on their first entries, with most completing at least one tutorial today. Here is a Scratch studio with all the Scratch [Beginner's Challenge Projects](https://scratch.mit.edu/studios/29818873/). 

### Recap for May 31st

Trees
  : Student H worked on several projects today, including the following. He created an illustration for his Tree project of a tree sprouting. 

{% include zakviewer.html Name="Trees" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/538648051/" caption="A remix of the student's project showing his tree blooming" %}

He also created a sound project using musical sprites and learned how to make the music stop before playing the next sound.

```
when this sprite is clicked
stop all sounds
play sound (this sound)
```
{: .msb}

{% include zakviewer.html Name="Robot Music" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/538649820/" caption="Click the robots to hear the sound. The music is great!" %}


Dancer
  :Student A's first entry for the challenge was this remix of the "Getting Started" Tutorial.
{% include zakviewer.html Name="Dancer" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/538650608/" caption="Look at my moves!" %}


Pong Tutorial
  : Student A2 did the Pong tutorial. Her modification was adding a game over message, and adding sound and stopping the sound when the game was over. 

```
// ball make sound
when @greenFlag clicked
change [Score v] by (0)
forever
    play sound [Dance Funky v] until done
end

// stop music and say game over
when @greenFlag clicked
forever
    if <touching [Ball v]?> then
        stop all sounds
        say [Game over] for (2) seconds
        stop [all v]
    end
end
```
{: .msb}

{% include zakviewer.html Name="Pong with stops" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/538651827" caption="" %}


Cow runs away 
  : Student M did the Storytelling tutorial. In his version, the Cow runs away, and there is an alien who hacks at the owl.

{% include tynkerprojectpage.html Name="NAME" ID="https://www.tynker.com/play/cow-joke-5-31/60b563e87cdb837a7656df67-631348XpPSuxBbcKdXVvZ.kCSs,8Mk" caption="That is one scared Owl!" %}


Flying Raptor?
  : Student M remixed the flying cat project and is working on adding more characters to it for his Challenge submission.

{% include zakviewer.html Name="Name" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/538665153" caption="Eventualy the space ships will move." %}


Hacking Scratch Loops
  : Student Y was playing around with the character editor by mangling the basic Flying Cat character. 

{% include imgur.html title="original version" ID="https://i.imgur.com/IWrER1z.png" caption="" width="200px" height="" %}{% include imgur.html title="changed version" ID="https://i.imgur.com/37NeFgv.png" caption="" width="200px" height="" spacer=" "  %}

I showed him how to turn this into a basic animation, and he had a lot of fun hacking an animation"bug" in Scratch. 

```
when gf clicked
forever
next costume
wait (.1) seconds // ballerina

// for other characters 
wait (.e) seconds // cat
wait (.1E1) seconds // man
wait (.01e2) seconds //taco
```
{: .msb}

The ballerina animation is changing every tenth of a second. Usually, Scratch prevents you from putting anything but a number into wait blocks.  However, the student changed the '.1' to '.e', probably by accident. You can see what happened in the cat. As it turns out, Scratch does allow scientific notation, as in '.1e1' to mean .1 X 10^1, or 1. Therefore, aside from the numbers, the letter e is allowed as input. Furthermore, by design or as a bug, it even allows some nonsense values like just plain 'e' or '.E' or 'eeee', which is why the cat works. The taco and the man are flashing at '.1E1' and '.01e2' seconds each, i.e. at 1 second intervals.

{% include zakviewer.html Name="Crazy Cat" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/538616373" caption="Watch them go!!" %}


https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/538363775
</details>


Friday
<details markdown=1>
<summary markdown=1>## May 28th
</summary>

## May 28th

### Recap for May 28th

Beach Project
  : Student A learned about layers to help put the bad candy in the basket.

Platform Project
  : I reviewed some corrections Student C's project, including making sure the actor costumes are centered and adding physics and gravity. I will continue to review these with her next week.

Scratch Jr.
  The scratch Jr. Project of the week was The Alien Comes to Visit project. Students K, R, and Y each made different version. Here is one version by student K.

{% include imgurmp4.html link="https://i.imgur.com/YsOgS4T.mp4" %}

Move Gus
  : Student R made a lot of progress in her fairy chase project based on "Move Gus" tutorial. She finished the first level with one chaser, and moved on to level 2 with more chasers. She included a timer, and signal for when the game is over. 

{% include tynkerprojectpage.html Name="Move Gus" ID="https://www.tynker.com/play/move-gus-web-5-29/60b2b21e1664507b230992f3-831271Xrq4kW7i6RpNGEE44EC4Rvkk" caption="She also made the fairy cry when she loses. Great ideas!" %}

Swordfighting Contest
  : I reviewed with student Y some suggestions for how to bring the characters on stage using animate and glide blocks which he incorporated into his project. 

{% include tynkerprojectpage.html Name="Swordfighting Contest" ID="https://www.tynker.com/play/sword-fight-5-29/60b2b512bc5cdf551309de4c-283030XlXdAHRcsEUM2iUuyNabBkEk" caption="He also made the judge walk on stage and the the other characters separate." %}

</details>

Sat
<details markdown=1>
<summary markdown=1>## May 29th
</summary>

## May 29th

### Recap for May 29th
Today I introduced the **Junior Coders Beginner's Challenge** [please see this page for details](./BeginnerChallenge.html). The goal is to motivate to do the Scratch tutorials. Students all began or continued working on their first entries, with most completing at least one tutorial today. Here is a Scratch studio with all the [Beginner's Challenge Projects](https://scratch.mit.edu/studios/29818873/). Today's Projects:


{% include turbowarp.html Name="Student Y" ID="537769588" caption="Pop the balloons with music" %}

{% include turbowarpWithProjectUrl.html Name="Student Y" ID="537769588" caption="Pop the balloons with music" %}


{% include turbowarp.html Name="Student M" ID="537774313" caption="A funnny game of pong" %}

{% include turbowarp.html Name="Student H" ID="537770208" caption="Click the word or the ball" %}

{% include turbowarp.html Name="Student N" ID="537769429" caption="A story" %}

{% include turbowarp.html Name="Student N" ID="537775672" caption="Catch the chick" %}


</details>



Getting Started
Animate a Name
Imagine a World
Make Music
Create A Story
Make a Chase Game
Animate A Character
Make a Clicker Game
Make it Fly
Pong Game
Code a Cartoon
Animate an Adventure Game
Video Sensing
Create Animations That Talk
Talking Tales
Add a Sprite
Add a Backdrop
Change Size
Glide Around
Record a Sound
Make It Spin
Hide and Show
Animate a Sprite
Use Arrow Keys
Add Effects


<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeMu1iKt8vUS62QiQL3DLkh_MluB-7NGhQ-IlyMSBBr76e5JQ/viewform?embedded=true" width="640" height="1294" frameborder="0" marginheight="0" marginwidth="0">Loading…</iframe>

