---
layout: junior_coders_default
title: Getting Started with Scratch Jr. (Monday PM)
title2: 
levelsToTop: "../"
tags: []
---


Friday  

<details markdown=1>
<summary markdown=1>## July 22nd
</summary>

##  July 22nd

###  Recap for  July 22nd


{% include zakviewer.html Name="2022 7 25 COFM" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/716761149/editor" caption="
Student M did some layer adjusting: the room closed sprite covering the classroom has to appear in front of the classroom when the game starts. If the he has enough money, clicking the sprite opens the classroom. 

We then used some nested ifs: if the cat is assigned to go to the classroom, then if there is enough money, the cat can go to the classroom. 

He now has two working rooms. His challenge will be finish the remaining rooms by himself.
<span>" %}



{% include imgur.html title="" ID="https://i.imgur.com/XFfxbPF.png" caption="Student D worked on making a project about someone turning on a lightbulb. I gave him some tips on using the costume editor that he used to make this drawing." width="" height="" spacer="" %}

{% include zakviewer.html Name="2022-07-25 Untitled-7 on Scratch" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/716423538/editor" caption="He also made this project based on a tutorial." %}

Student S made a ScratchJr. maze project similar to a mario platformer. She did a great job using message blocks, and together we added coins that disappear when the player touches them, and even a flashing effect and sound.

Student K continued making his go home button clear all the screens. We are working on adding code that will allow the player to use the weapon to attack the spider and skeleton. 

</details>


Saturday

<details markdown=1>
<summary markdown=1>## July 23rd
</summary>

## July 23rd 

### Recap for July 23rd


{% include zakviewer.html Name="2022-07-27 Untitled-139 on Scratch" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/592280068/" caption="Student Y began making project about going to school have haiving to. Cleverly he also added a timer that is triggered my 5 seconds increments the timer." %}


{% include zakviewer.html Name="2022-07-27 Untitled-54 on Scratch" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/716423763/" caption="Student M began working on a Demon Slayer themed fighting game. He imported and drew some characters and we talked about how the game would work." %}


{% include zakviewer.html Name="2022-07-27 2022 07 09 Flappy Abu with instructions on Scratch" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/712848541/" caption="Student N made the moving pipes for his Flappy Abu project based on the template code I gave him. He invented some clever pipes for the project.  " %}

{% include zakviewer.html Name="2022-07-27 Untitled-117 on Scratch" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/716424622/" caption="Student N also played around with Motion and Looks blocks to make this cute project." %}




</details>

Monday 

<details markdown=1>
<summary markdown=1>## July 25th
</summary>

##  July 25th

### Recap for July 25th


I gave students some [instructions](https://digitalgardenforjrcoders.netlify.app/prep-notes/2022-07-25-monday-class-instructions/) for the next steps in the Parachute project. This will include adding adding a shadow for the updraft sprite, making the updraft move, and preparing for the game replay and game over routines.

The main goal recently has been to make the kids comfortable with finding the blocks and using the GUI, without stressing comprehension. Today's project involved a lot of code, but the kids were able to move through it quickly and smoothly mostly on their own, and by helping each other. Moreover, it is clear that the kids are understanding quite a bit. Once the GUI becomes second nature, it will be easy to focus specifically on developing understanding. 

I also installed an extension called "Scratch Addons" that will make using the GUI easier. For example it allows us to increase the size of the code area, which is important as some kids have small screens. 


</details>


<details markdown=1>
<summary markdown=1>## July 23rd Makeup
</summary>

##  July 23rd Makeup

###  Recap for July 23rd Makeup


{% include zakviewer.html Name="2022-07-25 Student L Kitten Parachute!" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/713285582/" caption="Student L added a background to his project. He imported a gif and he wrote some basic code for looping the gif, including a wait to adjust the speed. He downloaded some other backgrounds and we walked through the code he will use to switch between the two when the game runs." %}




</details>