---
layout: junior_coders_default
title: Getting Started with Scratch Jr.
title2: Rose Class LATEST
levelsToTop: "../"
---
<style>

</style>

<details>
<summary>## July 17th
</summary>

## July 17th

### test

{% include niceimage-galleryNoTables.html folder="/scratchProjects/Y1R17Outerspace/" %}

### July 17th Homework Review: Outer Space

<iframe width="100%" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/EQ8FqqIM_Rc" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

[Download](./scratchProjects/Y1R17Outerspace.sjr)

#### Reverse engineer: Outer Space

We did some reverse engineering. 

{% include niceimage-galleryNoTables.html folder="/scratchProjects/Y1R17Outerspace/" %}


#### Debugging: Outer Space

Here are some problems to solve:

{% include niceimage-galleryNoTables.html folder="/scratchProjects/Y1R17OuterspaceDebugging/" %}

1. Why doesn’t the sun spin when pressed?
2. Why does the alien stay in the air and not hop back down?
3. Why doesn’t the shooting star hide after it shrinks?
4. Why doesn’t the astronaut fly up when pressed?

<details>
<summary>#### Debugging: Outer Space Answers
</summary>

#### Debugging: Outer Space Answers
1. It needs the start on tap trigger
2. The move up block needs to be replaced with a hop block
3. The show block needs to be replaced with a hide block
4. The number (parameter) on the move up block needs to be greater than 0

</details>

### Animal House

We work making animal sounds. Our template is the Animal House Project from BootUp

<iframe width="100%" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ie-PcCGplu4" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

[Download](./scratchProjects/Y1R18Animalhouse.sjr)

#### Reverse Engineering: Animal House


We reverse engineered the following characters:

{% include niceimage-galleryNoTables.html folder="/scratchProjects/Y1R18Animalhouse/" %}





</details>

#### Debugging: Animal House

We debugged the following problems:

{% include niceimage-galleryNoTables.html folder="/scratchProjects/Y1R18AnimalhouseDebugging/" %}


1. Why does the barn get bigger and not bigger, then smaller?

2. Why does the chicken play a pop sound and not the recorded sound?

3. Why does the horse play the same recording twice instead of two different recordings?


<details>
<summary>#### Debugging: Animal House Answers
</summary>

#### Debugging: Animal House Answers

1. The second grow block should be a shrink block

2. The pop block sound be a play recorded sound block

3. The second play recorded sound block should have a number 2 and not a number 1


</details>