---
layout: junior_coders_default
title: Getting Started with Scratch Jr. (Monday PM)
title2: 
levelsToTop: "../"
tags: []
---

Friday

<details markdown=1>
<summary markdown=1>## August 6th
</summary>

## August 6th

### Recap for August 6th


Student K graduated up to Scratch this week. We worked together on making this falling ball project, including code for making the ball move right and experience gravity. 

{% include imgur.html title="Falling Ball" ID="https://i.imgur.com/2BoMLiH.png" caption="If the ball is touching the blocks, it 'undoes' gravity, else gravity continues." width="" height="" spacer="" %}

Student R explored animation blocks and made this little introduction to dance project. 

{% include tynkerprojectpage.html Name="Dance Party" ID="https://www.tynker.com/play/dance-party-/6103bd59e5cb674df461d19d-663860XvL.ca0P8JcWsZdImn7gIk4k" caption="Student M has made great progress in the past few weeks. " %}

Student Y ran up against a particularity of Tynker. He wanted to make the copies of the stock Tynker character, some of which woudl be bad guys, some of which would be good guys. Though it seems logical that one should be able to do this, in fact Tynker prevents this. 

{% include tynkerprojectpage.html Name="Super Fight" ID="https://www.tynker.com/play/super-fight-yuk-08-06/610eb31036ffcf2a0f47ac74-853791XlupTH,ffxDCyIs7,Om4MCAk" caption="If you change one copy of the stock character, they all get changed. They are all clones of each other rather than separate copies." %}



</details>

<details markdown=1>
<summary markdown=1>## August 7th
</summary>

## August 7th

### Recap for August 7th


Today we had only 3 students.

Two of the Scratch kids did the Nature Watching project. The fist step is erasing the "binocular" of a solid foreground so that we can see what is behind. Even I had a little trouble doing this until another teacher helped me. Once we had that, the rest of the project proceeded smoothly. We make the binoculars follow the mouse, and then add a game scene that includes various animals moving for us to watch. The student added a play button that dissolves using the ghost effect to reveal the game scene. 


{% include zakviewer.html Name="Nature watching" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/559297885/" caption="" %}


The other student Student worked on an electricity game. Originally his project just sent out various balls that travelled from the anode to the cathode. I suggested he add an element that the player could use to direct the balls. In doing that we noticed that his balls were bouncing off at weird angles because he was turning the balls, not pointing them in a different direction. At first this was a random direction, but I suggested it might look more realistic to have them bounce at the correct angle.



However, doing this involves some special math. It is not difficult and next class I will show the the correct formula. 


{% include zakviewer.html Name="Angle Demo" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/558828022/" caption="The key formula is 'reflected angle = 2 * angle of wall - direction of ball' " %}

</details>


<details markdown=1>
<summary markdown=1>## August 7th Makeup
</summary>

## August 7th Makeup

### Recap for August 7th Makeup

Student M worked on a new project with a twist: The hero is very very small! He had a lot of fun with it, and the result is quite funny!

{% include tynkerprojectpage.html Name="Super Jumper" ID="https://www.tynker.com/play/super-jumper-08-06/610eb4f84836c2133c732123-777519XmMFnBZXdIRXfzmWYUilUaIk" caption="Though he is small, codey can beat the giant bad guys if he runs out of their range quickly enough." %}

Student H worked on making a character do a dance when various keys are pressed. This involves testing if the key is pressed and then making the costume cycle through the costumes for that particular dance, for example the up arrow key might cycle through costumes 3, 4 and 5, the down arromw might do costumes 6 through 15, and so on. This is a common situation in scratch, so worth learning. With a little help he was able to create this project. 

{% include zakviewer.html Name="Dancer remix" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/559726705/" caption="Press the arrow keysto see the character dance." %}


</details>

