---
layout: junior_coders_default
title: Getting Started with Scratch Jr. (Monday PM)
title2: 
levelsToTop: "../"
tags: []
---

<
<details markdown=1>
<summary markdown=1>## June 14th
</summary>

## June 14th

## Recap for June 14th


Ghosts and Singers
  : Student A told a sad tale of a boy who meets a ghost. This was another entry in his tutorial submissions.


{% include turbowarp.html Name="Boy Meets Ghost" ID="544133805" caption="He added the text to speech on the second screen" %}

He also made some additions to his Best Singer project.  

{% include turbowarp.html Name="Best Singer" ID="541319256" caption="He added narration and user directions" %}

{% include imgur.html title="" ID="https://i.imgur.com/MdgPEo6.png" caption="text to speech" width="200px" height="" spacer="" %} {% include imgur.html title="" ID="https://svgshare.com/i/YEZ.svg" caption="This helps users know how to use the program" width="200px" height="" spacer="" %}


Bowties, and Diamonds
  : Student A2 involved clicking bowties and diamonds. 

{% include imgur.html title="" ID="https://i.imgur.com/pExRKeL.png" caption="Her personalization was making it so that you had to touch twice to get a point. This required an initialization routine and a testing loop" width="" height="" spacer="" %} 


{% include turbowarp.html Name="Bow Ties and Diamonds" ID="541323243" caption="She also added a color effect. There is a duplicate stack." %}


This Ghost Can Dance
  : Student H made a dance project. His challenge was making the dancing stop when the music stopped. Using the repeat until block with a flag (variable) accomplished this. Here is the Ghosts' code:

```
when @greenFlag clicked
set [stopped music v] to [0] // initialize  variable
broadcast [message1 v]
play sound [Dance Around v] until done
set [stopped music v] to [1] // set flag

when I receive [message1 v]
repeat until <(stopped music) = [1]> // test flag
    next costume
    wait (1) seconds
end
```
{: .msb}

{% include turbowarp.html Name="I Am A Giant" ID="425310342" caption="Interestingly, the boy uses a different method to stop. He just plays enough times to seem like he is stopping with the music.

```
when I receive [message1 v]
repeat (15)
    next costume
    wait (1) seconds
endH
```
{: .msb}
<span>" %}




Spooky Sounds
  : Getting a (very) head start on Halloween, Student M worked on a spooky sounds project. He animated each actor using animate blocks and set part blocks.

{% include imgur.html title="" ID="https://i.imgur.com/TtrTmwo.png" caption="The Zommbie kicks 5 times" width="" height="" spacer="" %}

{% include imgur.html title="" ID="https://i.imgur.com/3buwyjU.png" caption="This changes the face of the vampire with each click" width="" height="" spacer="" %}

{% include tynkerprojectpage.html Name="Spooky Sounds" ID="https://www.tynker.com/play/spooky-sounds/60bdec2110fa382fb943e38c-225593XiBt68oJiK00r0t0S6bd61Qk" caption="" %}
</details>


<details markdown=1>
<summary markdown=1>## June 12th
</summary>

## June 12th

## Recap for June 12th

### Ghost Balloon
Student R's project had a bug. His character changed the background. However, the Party background kept reappearing. The problem was that his code didn't reset the score after switching to the party:
  
```
when @greenFlag clicked
forever
    if <(スコア) > [100]> then
        switch backdrop to [Party v]
    end
    set [スコア v] to [0] // He needed to add this block
end
```
{: .msb}  

After figuring that out he added the second stage of his project, including adding a goalie. We added  blocks that moved to the second stage right away, to make it easier to debug. We added initializations so the goalie would appear in the right place. He made the goalie move from side to side.

{% include zakviewer.html Name="Ghost Balloon Stage 2" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/530891031/" caption="Use the w key to move the ghost up" %}


### Moving Ball 
Student N first did a tutorial involving clicking a moving ball.

{% include zakviewer.html Name="Moving Ball" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/540979288/" caption="" %}

### Walking and Talking
Soon after though he switched to a tutorial using voices. We added a simple animation to show the characters speaking. 

```
when @greenFlag clicked
go to x: (10) y: (-37)
show
repeat (4)
    switch costume to [costume2 v]
    wait (.1) seconds
    switch costume to [costume1 v]
    wait (.1) seconds
end

```
{: .msb}

Since the characters started walking, we then make the characters walk using messages.

```
when I receive [go walk v]
repeat until <touching [edge v]?>
    move (10) steps
    wait (.1) seconds
end
hide

```
{: .msb}


We talked about initializing the characters. We made the characters hide at the edge, and then return from the other edge. 
 
```

when I receive [come back from walk v]
go to x: (-240) y: (-37)
show
glide (1) secs to x: (0) y: (-37)
wait (4) seconds
```
{: .msb}

{% include zakviewer.html Name="" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/540981217" caption="" %}




### Jukebox
Student N. made a music jukebox project. He wanted each song to play until the end and then play the next songs, so we used `play sound [] until done`{: .msb} blocks. 

{% include zakviewer.html Name="" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/543633250/" caption="" %}

He also started a project using Pokemon cards and we worked on resizing the cards.


### Black Ninja
Student Y gathered a collection of Black Ninjas from the internet and worked in the editor to break them into individual sprites. Then he taught the ninja to change costume and move.


```
when [right arrow v] key pressed
switch costume to [haruki-right v]
move (10) steps

when @greenFlag clicked
switch costume to [haruki v]

when [left arrow v] key pressed
move (-10) steps
```
{: .msb}

{% include zakviewer.html Name="" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/543623161" caption="Use left and right arrow keys to move" %}


### Pong
Student H worked on a pong tutorial. He added several balls to make the game more interesting, and we made the scoring work.
{% include zakviewer.html Name="" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/543621246" caption="" %}



</details>


<details markdown=1>
<summary markdown=1>## June 11th
</summary>

## June 11th

### Recap for June 11th


### Complicated Maze
Student R has been trying to make a maze. I reviewed with him how to make lines straighter and remove dots. He was having some difficulty because his lines were too close to each other and not straight. 

The source of the problem is that the ScratchJr. interface is very limited in size and detail and available tools. When we move to the more advanced interface in Scratch, this will not be a problem. But, for now, here we are.

We took out a sheet of graph paper and I showed him how to draw a pattern by filling in the squares on the graph paper. The key to using lines in ScratchJr. is identifying the individual lines in the drawing. Each line needs to be handled separately. For example a simple cross can be to lines at right angles, or two L shapes touching at the corner. 

{% include imgur.html title="" ID="https://i.imgur.com/EZ3Airf.png" caption="" width="250px" height="" spacer="" %}



Once you know the lines, then you know how modify them to make the shape you want.


### Mario project
Student Y continued working on his Mario-type game. He chose some characters 


{% include imgur.html title="" ID="https://i.imgur.com/nt80hzl.png)" caption="" width="250px" height="" spacer="" %}



{% include imgur.html title="" ID="https://i.imgur.com/HweHM3w.png" caption="" width="250px" height="" spacer="" %}



{% include imgur.html title="" ID="https://i.imgur.com/f6KXVCH.png" caption="" width="250px" height="" spacer="" %}


and made buttons. We worked together on putting backgrounds to the buttons. 

Then he described what he wanted the characters to do and I showed him how to code it. When we click the button, it sends a message mario and to the kuribos. There are several kuribo characters, but only one is visible. They all move together, but only one is visible at a time. The message makes Mario moves right, and all the kuribo characters move left. Then if the visible kuribo and mario are touching, a message is sent:

1. Hide and return mario to his original spot.
2. visible kuribo disappears 
3. next kuribo returns to his origin and appears 

This repeats until there are no more kuribos and Mario can escape. This video shows how it works, without the mario characters.

{% include imgur.html title="" ID="https://i.imgur.com/x5EkELD.gif" caption="" width="250px" height="" spacer="" %}



### Changing Directions

Student Y continued working on a swrrdfighting project. He wanted his actor to face in different directions so we reviewed the rotation style and point in direction blocks.

### Move Gus

We made some improvements to her Move Gus Project, such as adding a score and switching levels. We also talked about the idle animation.

{% include imgur.html title="" ID="https://i.imgur.com/1DuvIEE.png" caption="This changes the score, ends the game if the score is 5." width="250px" height="" spacer="" %}



### Jumping Princess

I showed her how to make the coins make a sound and disappear when the actor touches them. 

{% include imgur.html title="Disappearing coins" ID="https://i.imgur.com/YkVzxVf.png" caption="" width="250px" height="" spacer="" %}


I showed her how to copy code from one character to another and she started copying the code to all her coins.

{% include imgur.html title="Making coins ding" ID="https://i.imgur.com/lyX68lj.png" caption="The same code works for all her coins" width="250px" height="" spacer="" %}


### Mermaid Layers
She continued working on making bad candy flow to the basket. She asked a good question: what happens if characters are set to the same level? This is a very simple and good question, with a complicated answer, which we will save for another day. We walked through writing the code for one more actor.

</details>

