---
layout: junior_coders_default
title: Getting Started with Scratch Jr. (Monday PM)
title2: 
levelsToTop: "../"
tags: []
---

Monday 


<details markdown=1>
<summary markdown=1>## August 16th
</summary>

## August 16th

### Recap for August 16th


Today we continued working on the pacman project. We added a score keeper. We added pills and ghosts. 



{% include imgur.html title="" ID="https://i.imgur.com/8cAUTZr.png" caption="
We made the ghost randomly look for Pacman. As it does, if it hits a wall, it changes direction." width="" height="" spacer="" %}

We almost have a working Pacman game. 

{% include zakviewer.html Name="PAC 2021 08 17 class project" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/561047033/" caption=" We still have to add more pills, ghosts, and levels. We have to make the ghosts be able to detect Pacman, and we need super pills, and intro and game over screens." %}


</details>

Sat 

<details markdown=1>
<summary markdown=1>## August 14th
</summary>

## August 14th

### Recap for August 14th

Today 3 beginner Scratch students worked on an easy Cat Training project, based on a  student's original project. we taught the cat to sit, lie down, run, and roar. 

{% include zakviewer.html Name="Cat Training" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/560505433" caption="" %}


Student N worked on a Red Light project. The player uses the right arrow to move right. First we made the bus reappear at the left when we hit the edge. 

```
when [right arrow v] key pressed
move (10) steps
if <(x position) > (270)> then
switch backdrop to (Blue Sky v) ::looks
set x to (-278)
broadcast [switch v]
end
```
{: .msb}

Then we used a variable ('red bue or yellow') to keep track of the condition of the light, and we detect if we are touching the light while the light is red. If he hits the red light, the game over message appears. 


```
if <<touching (Light  v) ?> and <(red blue or yellow) = (red)>> then 
switch backdrop to (Blue Sky2 v) ::looks
broadcast (a v) and wait
 else 
next costume
end
```
{: .msb}

{% include zakviewer.html Name="" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/560546663/" caption="Use the right arrow to move the bus. " %}




</details>


Fri 



<details markdown=1>
<summary markdown=1>## August 13th
</summary>

## August 13th


### Recap for August 13th

Student R made a Dance Project on her own. This project showcases some of the things she learned in the Moving Gus Project, such as changing levels, changing directions, and animating conversations.

{% include tynkerprojectpage.html Name="" ID="https://www.tynker.com/play/my-favorite-song-muzic-08-13/611ab3d7acb9f23a1f1e6566-227373XqmvLPHbAbnbTWlW4HW5Y,wk" caption="wait 3 seconds once clicking for the project to begin. I have modified it slightly to protect privacy." %}


Student Y contemplated making a Harry Potter project, based on the comic book tutorial project. He created a storyboard for the project, but finding a way to make the Harry Potter Actors (that is to say the graphics) was difficult. I suggested importing images from gifs, but this does require quite a bit of work. Student R will have to decide whether to do the storyboard with stock characters, draw his own characters, or modify his project in some other way.

{% include tynkerprojectpage.html Name="" ID="https://www.tynker.com/play/comic-joke-for-y/611ab7ad524a7540e6483287-167044XqasJPI1c4zFNt8xMzz1ZeUk" caption="This is a modifications of the orginal project to show how Baby Harry Potter could be part of it." %}


Student K continued working on his Falling Ball game. We talked a little about incorporating user actions into his game. He decided that clicking the ball would send the player to ahe next level. 

```
when this sprite clicked
if <<(x position) = [200]> and <(y position) = [-150]>> then
    broadcast [New Level v] and wait
end
```
{: .msb}

We noticed that his ball bounced a bit too far to the right and down. We used the following standard method of keeping the ball within limits:

```
if <touching color [#83fffc]?> then
        change y by (5)
    end
    if <(y position) < [-150]> then
        go to x: (x position) y: (-150)
    end
```
{: .msb}

Then he began deciding what would happen on his next level.

</details>

