---
layout: junior_coders_default
title: Getting Started with Scratch Jr. (Monday PM)
title2: 
levelsToTop: "../"
tags: []
---

## Monday

<details markdown=1>
<summary markdown=1>## August 30th
</summary>

## August 30th

### Recap for August 30th

Today we worked a group on a very basic platformer project based on a project called Grey.  It includes only the essentials, but it introduces concepts like variables, My Blocks, if blocks to detect keypresses, gravity,  and "pulling up out of the ground" particle physics, and even a little tutorial on drawing triangles. This project forms the basis of most platform and scrolling projects and can be easily modified to suit almost any project.


{% include zakviewer.html Name="Basic Platformer Based on Grey" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/564896968/" caption="So far we have created the player, added gravity, and pulled the character out of the ground when it falls." %}

We had a lot of kids working on it and once, with some technical issues, a few mistakes by me, and the occasional distraction, so it was slow going. The good news is the hard part is over, and it gets easier from here. Next week we start movement.


Students also worked on individual projects, such as a clicker game, a basketball project, and a shooting game in Tynker.


</details>


## Friday 

<details markdown=1>
<summary markdown=1>## August 27th
</summary>

## August 27th

### Recap for August 27th

Today we had kids doing a variety of projects. Some kids were working on modifying the Cat Training project from last week. We added jumps and costume changes. The project is primarily a demo project to explain broadcasts, it includes some repeat loops and motion scripts. 

{% include zakviewer.html Name="Cats v2" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/560505433/" caption="" %}



A Tynker student continued gathering items for a Harry Potter project. We talked about you could make a simple Harry potter project using the images he was collecting. The idea was to have a narrator who would tell the story and the action would be illustrated to the side using the gifs. As an incentive, we agreed to each a make a Harry Potter project to share with each other. I showed him the first part of my project:

{% include tynkerprojectpage.html Name="Voldermort" ID="https://www.tynker.com/play/voldermort-is-a-scary-dude/612aeeda49d5e357891e2e6e-361824Xr3j3haFusUHp9,HBzlsFYck" caption="" %}

Another student added a sequel to her Favorite Song Project. I like this kind of project that shows the student's individuality. 


{% include tynkerprojectpage.html Name="" ID="https://www.tynker.com/play/my-favorite-song-part-2/612c55cf419e6a561c1e0c3a-822927XndSxgcLe294xaBv1RPco6Ak" caption="This kind of project depends on using levels and simple say blocks, but is a good beginning for larger projects." %}


</details>


## Saturday

<details markdown=1>
<summary markdown=1>## August 28th
</summary>

## August 28th

### Recap for August 28th


Today we worked a group on a very basic platformer project based on a project called Grey.  It includes only the essentials, but it introduces concepts like variables, My Blocks, if blocks to detect keypresses, gravity,  and "pulling up out of the ground" particle physics, and even a little tutorial on drawing triangles. This project forms the basis of most platform and scrolling projects and can be easily modified to suit almost any project.


{% include zakviewer.html Name="Grey Mario Platformer 08 28" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/564441951/" caption="The students did a great job paying attention and began to talk about adding customizations like villains and obstacles, which we will try next week. " %}

</details>

