---
layout: junior_coders_default
title: Getting Started with Scratch Jr. (Monday PM)
title2: 
levelsToTop: "../"
tags: []
---

<details markdown=1>
<summary markdown=1>## July 11th
</summary>

## July 11th

### Recap for July 10th


Today's main lesson was to continue the Mario Galaxy 4 project, finishing step 3 and starting step 4. First, students installed an addon to the chrome browser to make it easier to edit in scratch. We added code to go to a new level when the donut is eaten by kuma. We also added some sound, and made the donut move to a new location. 

```
when @greenFlag clicked // in the donut
forever
    if <touching [kuma v]?> then
        start sound [Chomp v]
        broadcast [next level v]
        point in direction (pick random (-179) to (180))
        wait (0.5) seconds
    end
end
```
{: .msb}

We then added a variable called level. We initialized the level, and updated it each time we reached a new level. We learned how to show the level. 

```
when @greenFlag clicked // in the earth, we 
set [Level v] to [1]
switch costume to [earth v]
go to x: (0) y: (0)

when I receive [next level v] // in the earth
change [Level v] by (1) 
next costume
```
{: .msb}

We also briefly touched on how to make characters larger and smaller in the paint editor using the onionskin tool.


{% include zakviewer.html Name="a leaning thingy\.\.\. for a class revised 0711" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/552682487/" caption="" %}

{% include zakviewer.html Name="Move Dot around 4" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/552544825/" caption="" %}

{% include zakviewer.html Name="Crab is going around the earth" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/550765576/" caption="" %}

{% include zakviewer.html Name="bird taco revised dc 07 11 copy" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/552693376/" caption="" %}

</details>

<details markdown=1>
<summary markdown=1>## July 10th
</summary>

## July 10th

### Recap for July 10th

Today we worked on the Mario Galaxy four project. 


{% include zakviewer.html Name="Galaxy 4 step 01" ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/550487306/" caption="" %}



Everybody was able to get to the first step. We did have a few technical issues but we resolve them and that will make going forward easier from now on. After the break some kids expolored for their next project while others finished projects that they had been working on before. 



{% include zakviewer.html Name="MG4 Step 01 H" caption="Press right arrow to see it move." ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/552334899/" %}

{% include zakviewer.html Name="MG4 Step 01 Y" caption="Press right arrow to see it move." ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/552334188/" %}

{% include zakviewer.html Name="MG4 Step 01 R" caption="Press right arrow to see it move." ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/552333802/" %}

{% include zakviewer.html Name="MG4 Step 01 M" caption="Press right arrow to see it move." ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/552333323/" %}

{% include zakviewer.html Name="MG4 Step 01 N" caption="Press right arrow to see it move." ID="https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/552332799/" %}

</details>

<details markdown=1>
<summary markdown=1>## July 9th
</summary>

## July 9th


### Recap for July 9th
 
 
ScratchJr
  : Two of the ScratchJr. kids continued working on the Space invaders game, specifically making the space invader appear and descend. This was challenging for them, and we walked through it a few times, including using the white board to map out the different actions needed. Student R was able to finish it after sorting out a problem with his left and right arrow buttons. 
  
  Student Y is about halfway finished, but became interested in a frog jumping game some other kids were working on, so he tried his hand at that. This was really a very simple project with the goal of getting the kids to think of ways of making it more interesting. For example, student H turned the frogs into a herd of elephants.

Sword Fight  
  : The sword fight project continues, with some debugging cause the fighters wouldn't get up after fighting. Were they fighting too hard? No, they just needed an idle animation block. The fighters now also get awards.  This is still a work in progress.

Move Gus
  : Level 4 of Gus move project was having some problems. One problem was that an extra stage was somehow introduced, and it took some detective work to figure it out. In addition, some special settings had to be adjusted. She had copied the actors without copying the settings such as making the platforms static active so they would stay still and stop the actors, but making the heroine not static or active, so she would feel gravity.  We also made the game move to level 5 when the heroine falls, which in this game she will. 

Crossy Road 
  : A Tynker kid started working on a road crossing game. We chose a road costume for her to use, and she coded some cars crossing the road and a character who crosses it.

{% include tynkerprojectpage.html Name="Crossy Road" ID="https://www.tynker.com/play/crossy-road-7-11/60eaa2ee9a37a764174e271e-593343Xt41tnrp1GGdprof4yWKsWUk" caption="Nexxt will make her return home when she is hit." %}

Mermaid
  : The mermaid game is almost finished. Once the last candy is taken, the mermaid takes the basket to the center of the stage and then drops all the candy. I explained to her how to make this happen with messages and glide blocks, and we will start coding it next week.

</details>

